[ JWST DD ERS Proposal Narrative ] [ JWST DD ERS Observation Specifications ] [ Related Links ]

JWST DD ERS Proposal Narrative
The proposal narrative must include sections that discuss the following topics.  The page limit for the first four sections is 11 pages in total (including figures). 
Rationale for selection as a DD ERS program: Explain how the proposal will support community preparations for Cycle 2 observations. Describe the anticipated interest in, and use of, the data and science-enabling products developed by the team. Describe how the proposal will serve as a pathfinder for science investigations. 

Science Justification: Describe the scientific objectives supported by the proposed DD ERS observations and their overall importance to astronomy.  Describe the selected aspects of the science to be directly funded by the DD ERS program.  Discuss how the proposed observations support investigations beyond the beyond the immediate scientific objectives.  
 
Description of the Observations: Describe the targets and observational modes to be used. Quantitative estimates must be provided of the accuracy required to achieve key science goals. Proposers must demonstrate that all observations can execute in the first 5 months of Cycle 1 (expected to be from Apr-Aug 2019), and that a substantive subset of the observations are accessible in the first 3 months.  Qualitatively describe the availability of alternate targets and the process used to identify those targets should the start of science observations be delayed.  Robust ERS programs involve science investigations that can be performed with a variety of different targets and observations.  
 
Data Processing & Analysis Plan: Describe the data processing plan and identify science-enabling products that will be developed, including specifically those that will be made available by the release of the Cycle 2 Call for Proposals (September 2019). Describe the analysis required to pursue science investigations undertaken as an integral part of the DD ERS program. 

Science enabling products include, but are not limited to, higher-level data products (improved beyond the standard products from the STScI pipeline), additional software tools, documentation and other resources that demonstrate JWST's scientific capabilities or facilitate community science. Deliverables must include quantitative, data-related measurements to support Cycle 2 proposal preparation.  Science results by themselves are not science-enabling products.  Proposers should take a broad, but realistic, view in determining the level and types of products to be developed given the relatively short timescales.  
Proposals must present a delivery schedule for science-enabling products. A description of STScI pipeline data products, processing and analysis software, and their anticipated availability, will be provided by the May 2017 release of the final version of this Call for Proposals.  Proposers may consider multiple deliveries, with more advanced products provided over longer timescales. Proposals may include the collection, processing and analysis of ancillary data as part of an integrated DD ERS proposal.
 
Project Management Plan:  Describe data processing and analysis plan, roles, responsibilities, work schedule, schedule and list of deliverables, including effort required to support DD ERS community briefings. Identify the specific role of each co-Investigator.  Proposers should assume an October 2018 start for the plan.
  
 Preliminary Budget:  A preliminary budget plan will be required with the science proposal.   The plan will describe how funding will be allocated to support effective and timely delivery of an initial set of products to be provided by the release of the Cycle 2 GO Call for Proposals (September 2019); of any additional science-enabling products; and completion of selected science investigations.  The plan will also include the type of labor expected for the project (i.e. postdocs, graduate students, senior salary).  More detailed information regarding budget submission requirements will be provided in the final Call for Proposals to be released in May 2017. 

JWST DD ERS Observation Specifications
Specifications for proposed DD ERS observations will be submitted in a manner consistent the JWST General Observer (GO) proposal process.  Along with the proposal narrative, observational parameters must be specified using the Astronomer’s Proposal Tool (APT) with enough information to enable them to be placed into a JWST Long Range Plan.  STScI staff will provide technical reviews of the observing specifications for successful proposals, and assist with observing strategy optimization, if needed, in preparation for release of DD ERS APT files to the community.
Full instructions for JWST DD ERS proposal submission will be provided in May 2017, with the release of the final version of the DD ERS Call for proposals. 